---
title: Accessibility Strategy
tags: code
image: accessibilitystrategy.jpg
description: "Understanding why accessibility makes you a better and smarter organisation is the first step in any long-term strategy. Drive innovation, enhance your brand and extend market reach."
demo: https://codepen.io/mxbck/pen/5e897c9cd7c75d130d1f86bc5b87a1d2?editors=0010
featured: true
featuredImage: accessibilitystrategy.jpg
featuredImageColor: "#06624c"
---

## Why do a strategy?

<p class="lead">Understanding why accessibility makes you a better and smarter organisation is the first step in any long-term strategy.</p>

### Drive Innovation
Accessibility features in products and services often solve unanticipated problems.

### Enhance Your Brand 
Diversity and inclusion efforts so important to business success are accelerated with a clear, well-integrated accessibility commitment.

### Extend Market Reach
The global market of people with disabilities is over 1 billion people with a spending power of more than $6 trillion. Accessibility often improves the online experience for all users.

### Minimize Legal Risk
Many countries have laws requiring digital accessibility, and the issue is of increased legal concern.

## Test Accessibility in the pipeline

<p class="lead">With a simple set of choices, we can run accessibility tests in our pipelines and generate useful feedback for your development and design teams. Or help you implement your own services. This can be part of your test strategy, defining checks that happen every step of the way, i in the course of app development.</p>

{% callout "info" %}
While manual checks are always recommended, you can achieve a high degree of prevention by introducing automation into your design and development cycles.
{% endcallout %}

### The tools
- NVDA and Voiceover Screenreader output
- Sitemap/URLs scanners
- Performance checkers
- Mobile app accessibility tests on real cloud devices

For real device tests, we use customised popular frameworks, such as Espresso, XCUITest and Playwright, which enables testing in a more real-life context. 

## Code analysis
_(requires read-only access to your codebase)_
- CodeQL code analysis
- Semgrep code analysis
- SonarQube code analysis