---
title: Quality engineering
tags: ["code", "design"]
image: qualityengineering.jpg
featured: true
featuredImage: qualityengineering.jpg
featuredImageColor: "#06624c"
description: "Quality assurance and testing, from design to production."
---

<p class="lead">Bringing quality to all aspects of a project, Quality assurance and testing across the SDLC.</p>

{% callout "info" %}
If you are trying to "shift left, we can help bring testing earlier and more frequently, into the CI/CD pipeplines
{% endcallout %}

Firstly we develop adaptive test strategies for applying quality checks from design through to development. At the core of the implementation are lean UI and API test frameworks, integrated into CI/CD pipelines. Along with performance tests with every build to check accessibility, load and security.

## Our focus
* Adaptive test strategies.
* Applying quality checks from design through to development. 
* UI test frameworks to do richer tests, focused on UX.
* API test frameworks with service virtulisation to ensure test continuity.
* Performance tests with every build to check Accessibility, Load and Security.
* Integrating testing into CI/CD pipelines as early as possible.

## Test development in line with development cycle.
* Every test should be able to provide the same answer of "Yes", at any point, to the question "Are you useful?".
* Starting lean with test framework is logical, wait for test development to highlight possible requirement.
* Native tools always preferred, firstly for synergy with development and secondly performance and scope larger.
* Test frameworks should be part of app codebase.
