---
title: Color Theme Switcher
tags: code, design
image: cover.jpg
description: "Let users customize your website with their favorite color scheme! Your site has a dark mode? Mine has ten different themes now, and they're named after Mario Kart 64 race tracks."
featured: true
featuredImage: colors.jpg
featuredImageColor: "#77309A"
---

<p class="lead">Last year, the design gods decided that dark modes were the new hotness. "Light colors are for suckers", they laughed, drinking matcha tea on their fixie bikes or whatever.</p>

And so every operating system, app and even some websites (mine included) suddenly had to come up with a dark mode. Fortunately though, this coincided nicely with widespread support for CSS [custom properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) and the introduction of a new `prefers-color-scheme` media query.

There's lots of tutorials on [how to build dark modes](https://css-tricks.com/dark-modes-with-css/) already, but why limit yourself to light and dark? Only a Sith deals in absolutes. 

That's why I decided to build a new feature on my site: 
__dynamic color themes!__ Yes, instead of two color schemes, I now have ten! That's eight (8) better!

Go ahead and try it, hit that __paintroller-button__ in the header. 
I'll wait.

*If you're reading this somewhere else, the effect would look something like this:*

<div class="extend">
  <video poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/mxb/image/upload/v1620053481/theme-switcher-still_tq9zv2.png" width="752" height="452" preload="metadata" style="border: 1px solid var(--color-border)" muted controls>
    <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mxb/video/upload/q_auto/v1620053481/theme-switcher_q2nt7u.webm" type="video/webm" />
    <source src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mxb/video/upload/q_auto/v1620053491/theme-switcher_h9ehlj.mov" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
</div>

Nice, right? Let's look at how to do that!

> Accessibility means more than putting things online.
It means making your content and design clear and simple enough so that most people can use it without needing to adapt it, while supporting those who do need to adapt things.”
GOV.UK (2019 - Understanding new accessibility
requirements for public sector bodies)

Get an audit at any point in your project, and also get advice with pushing accessibility as part of your way of working, from design to code to production

The audit targets a wide range of disabilities, including visual, auditory, physical, speech, cognitive, language, learning, and neurological disabilities.

Professionally evaluating the website's accessibility level is a key step in web accessibility and can be performed at any stage of a web or mobile app project.

## Advantages

Our services are cost-effective and efficient, ensuring that businesses of all sizes can afford and benefit from our expertise. 

Our in-depth knowledge and experience in web accessibility and WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) compliance, allow us to deliver exceptional results and ensure that our clients' digital content is accessible to all users. 

Furthermore, our focus on DevOps integration is a unique aspect of our consultancy services. This integration of accessibility practices into the development workflow gives our clients a significant advantage in creating inclusive digital experiences.

### Key Benefits

* Inclusivity: Integrating accessibility ensures that digital products are usable by a wider audience, including individuals with disabilities.
* Legal Compliance: Adhering to accessibility standards like the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) helps avoid legal repercussions associated with non-compliance.
* Improved User Experience: Accessible design often leads to better overall usability, benefiting all users, not just those with disabilities.
* Business Advantages: A broader audience and enhanced user satisfaction can translate into increased engagement and customer loyalty.


## What you will get

- A full accessibility review and test of web or mobile app against the WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
- Delivery of a full, prioritised accessibility report of web and/or mobile app
- We’ll test with assistive technologies to aid the results
- An accessibility statement (inline with your current accessibility status) that can be published to a website advising on status of WCAG 2.2 AA compliance.
- Automated accessibility test framework for your CI pipeline

> Treat an audit as a startpoint, to integrating accessibility checks earlier in the development lifecycle.

## The process

### Questions
- Is the audit for web and/or mobile app?
- What is WCAG Level Required?
- Do you have User guides?
- Do we need login details?
- For web, do you have a sitemap.xml or list of URLs?
- For mobile app, do you have a template list"
- Do you need Extended UX checks (disability-focused)
- Is access to source control possible?
- Do you need more customised test automation scripting (to follow user journeys, for example)
- Do you need tools integrations into design and development environment
- Do you need an Accessibility strategy from design/development perspective.
- DO you need Web based dashboard where you can add/maintain new URL's for regular checks and monitoring.
- Do you need code-level checking and reporting (SonarQube)

## Recent clients

* Coloplast
* HealthwaveHub
* Infervision
* TympaHealth
* ZoomDoc
* Medialogix
* IMS Maxims

<!-- {{< button link="https://calendly.com/jaffamonkeyltd/intro-call" text="Book an intro meeting" >}} -->
